optical-surveys-2005/Readme.md, before:

# Optical Surveys (2005)

Preview this [Data Package](http://specs.frictionlessdata.io/data-packages/) using the [Data Package Viewer](http://data.okfn.org/tools/view?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ezwelty/cg-data/master/optical-surveys-2005).

## Citation

> Shad O'Neel (2006). Understanding the mechanics of tidewater glacier retreats: Observations and analyses at Columbia Glacier, Alaska (Ph.D.). University of Colorado at Boulder. Retrieved from http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2006PhDT........31O.

Section A3.2.2: Optical Surveys

> Three survey targets were deployed during June, 2005 (Figure A3.1), within one km of the calving face using a helicopter. The maximum lifetime of the markers was limited to 15 days, before each succumbed to calving. Positions of the targets were obtained using a Leica total station robotic survey theodolite at nominal time separation of 20-30 minutes. At 1-2 km ranges observed, position accuracy is ~5 cm. Two targets were placed (fortuitously) on an identical flowline, such that along-flow strain rates are calculable over a 5 day period.

## TODO

> Since the speeds are compared to seismic stuff you should assume UTC. Dig around through all the scripts and see if you can find anything to the contrary.  you may be able to pry this out of the gun files, but im not sure. the gun is tied to the bolt, which was GPS surveyed in WGS84. (Shad O'Neel, email: 2017-02-14)

- Times are given in decimal days. In what time zone?

> Ethan Welty: I'm actually finding evidence that times are in local time (AKDT, UTC-8). The times of the largest calving events (coord_trans/big_calves_lines.txt, coord_trans/biggest_events.txt) – plotted in coord_trans/marker_tracklines.m (with no time shifts anywhere) – match up with those in the original calving observations (CG05_calving_obs.xls), which are in local time. Unfortunately the gun files don't have time zone information.

- Coordinates are converted from local to world coordinates using gun (497126.859, 6775852.739) and reference target (497126.388, 6775984.429) coordinates. What datum are these coordinates in?

> Ethan Welty: I am finding evidence that UTM coordinates are NAD27. The terminus positions (coord_trans/terminus_178_04.txt) plotted in coord_trans/marker_tracklines.m alongside the rover positions must be NAD27 to resemble the 2004-06-18 and 2004-07-07 Aerometric flights. Furthermore, initial WGS84 lat,lng positions in the Trimble files GPS/2005/ROVER/03011570.dat and 03011571.dat very closely resemble the UTM gun and reference coordinates (respectively) in coord_trans/survey_coord_trans.m if-and-only-if these are NAD27. Finally, the coordinates don't make topographic sense if assumed to be NAD83.

- Was the elevation of the gun ever surveyed (otherwise, I can use a reference DEM)?

Commit message:

Convert local to world coordinates (optical-surveys-2005)

optical-surveys-2005/Readme.md, after:

# Optical Surveys (2005)

Preview this [Data Package](http://specs.frictionlessdata.io/data-packages/) using the [Data Package Viewer](http://data.okfn.org/tools/view?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ezwelty/cg-data/master/optical-surveys-2005).

## Citation

> Shad O'Neel (2006). Understanding the mechanics of tidewater glacier retreats: Observations and analyses at Columbia Glacier, Alaska (Ph.D.). University of Colorado at Boulder. Retrieved from http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2006PhDT........31O.

Section A3.2.2: Optical Surveys

> Three survey targets were deployed during June, 2005 (Figure A3.1), within one km of the calving face using a helicopter. The maximum lifetime of the markers was limited to 15 days, before each succumbed to calving. Positions of the targets were obtained using a Leica total station robotic survey theodolite at nominal time separation of 20-30 minutes. At 1-2 km ranges observed, position accuracy is ~5 cm. Two targets were placed (fortuitously) on an identical flowline, such that along-flow strain rates are calculable over a 5 day period.

In addition, a fourth marker (2) was deployed in June 2005 and a fifth marker (5) was deployed in September 2005, but these lasted only 9 and 51 hours, respectively.
