optical-surveys-1985/Readme.md, before:

# Optical Surveys (1985)

Preview this [Data Package](http://specs.frictionlessdata.io/data-packages/) using the [Data Package Viewer](http://data.okfn.org/tools/view?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ezwelty/cg-data/master/optical-surveys-1985).

## Citations

### Krimmel & Vaughn 1987

> Robert M. Krimmel and Bruce H. Vaughn (1987). Columbia Glacier, Alaska: Changes in velocity 1977–1986. Journal of Geophysical Research: Solid Earth, 92(B9), 8961–8968. doi:[10.1029/JB092iB09p08961](https://doi.org/10.1029/JB092iB09p08961)

Velocity of the Lower Glacier

> The high-frequency velocity variations, with resolution of less than 1 hour, were measured for three periods, August 11 to September 5, 1984, **August 7 to September 2, 1985**, and March 25 to April 9, 1986. In each measurement sequence the distance of the target (a reflector) along a trajectory at a given time was measured using an automated EDM (electronic distance meter). The measured distance had an error of about 1 cm [[Vaughn et al. 1985](https://pubs.er.usgs.gov/publication/ofr85487)]. For each of the time-distance data sets the velocity was determined using the derivative of a smoothing cubic spline [[Reinsch 1967](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2FBF02162161)]. This method tends to underestimate the maximum and overestimate the minimum velocities. Thus the absolute amplitude of the apparent velocity variations are less than actual, but the relative amplitude variations and timing are more accurate.

[...]

> In 1985, three reflectors were placed at 1.3, 2.8, and 4.6 km (Figure 7: A, B, and C, respectively) above the terminus. The A and B targets were strongly influenced, nearly synchronously, by the tide. The tide influence was not clear at the C target. During the 1985 measurement period the precipitation events were less episodic than in 1984, nonetheless velocities tended to be higher shortly after rainstorms (Figure 7).

### Walters & Dunlap 1987

> Roy A. Walters and William W. Dunlap (1987). Analysis of time series of glacier speed: Columbia Glacier, Alaska. Journal of Geophysical Research: Solid Earth, 92(B9), 8969–8975. doi:[10.1029/JB092iB09p08969](https://doi.org/10.1029/JB092iB09p08969)

Abstract

> During the summers of 1984 and 1985, laser measurements were made of the distance from a reference location to markers on the surface of the lower reach of Columbia Glacier, Alaska. The data have numerous gaps, mostly because of inclement weather. The laser measurements were corrected for variations in atmospheric temperature and pressure and for the trajectory of the marker. The marker speed was calculated by using a combination of cubic splines and digital filters to arrive at a data set with 1-hour time intervals. The speed varies from 7 to 15 m/d and has three noteworthy components: (1) a low-frequency perturbation in speed with a time scale of days related to increased precipitation, (2) semidiurnal and diurnal variations related to sea tides, and (3) diurnal variations related to glacier surface melt. The low frequency and tidal period variations are separated by low-pass filtering and subtracting the filtered data from the original data. The variations from melt runoff and tides have the same frequency range and are examined using harmonic analysis and multiple regression with the various forcing functions. The high-frequency portion of the ice speed signal is dominated by tidal influences and to a lesser extent by meltwater influences. The low-frequency portion of the signal is dominated by the effects of precipitation.

## To Do

- Locate original data.
- Extract ice velocities and precipitation (krimmel-vaughn-1987.pdf, Figure 7).
- Extract ice velocities (walters-dunlaps-1987.pdf, Figure 4).

Commit message:

Extract velocities and precipitation from figures (optical-surveys-1985)

optical-surveys-1985/Readme.md, after:

# Optical Surveys (1985)

Preview this [Data Package](http://specs.frictionlessdata.io/data-packages/) using the [Data Package Viewer](http://data.okfn.org/tools/view?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ezwelty/cg-data/master/optical-surveys-1985).

## Citations

### Krimmel & Vaughn 1987

> Robert M. Krimmel and Bruce H. Vaughn (1987). Columbia Glacier, Alaska: Changes in velocity 1977–1986. Journal of Geophysical Research: Solid Earth, 92(B9), 8961–8968. doi:[10.1029/JB092iB09p08961](https://doi.org/10.1029/JB092iB09p08961)

Velocity of the Lower Glacier

> The high-frequency velocity variations, with resolution of less than 1 hour, were measured for three periods, August 11 to September 5, 1984, **August 7 to September 2, 1985**, and March 25 to April 9, 1986. In each measurement sequence the distance of the target (a reflector) along a trajectory at a given time was measured using an automated EDM (electronic distance meter). The measured distance had an error of about 1 cm [[Vaughn et al. 1985](https://pubs.er.usgs.gov/publication/ofr85487)]. For each of the time-distance data sets the velocity was determined using the derivative of a smoothing cubic spline [[Reinsch 1967](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2FBF02162161)]. This method tends to underestimate the maximum and overestimate the minimum velocities. Thus the absolute amplitude of the apparent velocity variations are less than actual, but the relative amplitude variations and timing are more accurate.

[...]

> In 1985, three reflectors were placed at 1.3, 2.8, and 4.6 km (Figure 7: A, B, and C, respectively) above the terminus. The A and B targets were strongly influenced, nearly synchronously, by the tide. The tide influence was not clear at the C target. During the 1985 measurement period the precipitation events were less episodic than in 1984, nonetheless velocities tended to be higher shortly after rainstorms (Figure 7).

### Walters & Dunlap 1987

> Roy A. Walters and William W. Dunlap (1987). Analysis of time series of glacier speed: Columbia Glacier, Alaska. Journal of Geophysical Research: Solid Earth, 92(B9), 8969–8975. doi:[10.1029/JB092iB09p08969](https://doi.org/10.1029/JB092iB09p08969)

Abstract

> During the summers of 1984 and 1985, laser measurements were made of the distance from a reference location to markers on the surface of the lower reach of Columbia Glacier, Alaska. The data have numerous gaps, mostly because of inclement weather. The laser measurements were corrected for variations in atmospheric temperature and pressure and for the trajectory of the marker. The marker speed was calculated by using a combination of cubic splines and digital filters to arrive at a data set with 1-hour time intervals. The speed varies from 7 to 15 m/d and has three noteworthy components: (1) a low-frequency perturbation in speed with a time scale of days related to increased precipitation, (2) semidiurnal and diurnal variations related to sea tides, and (3) diurnal variations related to glacier surface melt. The low frequency and tidal period variations are separated by low-pass filtering and subtracting the filtered data from the original data. The variations from melt runoff and tides have the same frequency range and are examined using harmonic analysis and multiple regression with the various forcing functions. The high-frequency portion of the ice speed signal is dominated by tidal influences and to a lesser extent by meltwater influences. The low-frequency portion of the signal is dominated by the effects of precipitation.

## To Do

- Locate original data.
- Use position of Heather Island EDM as weather station position (krimmel-vaughn-1987.pdf, Figure 1):

> H is location of the instrument station used for velocity experiments 1984-1986.
